hey this is presto Walker Alice and Bob
can complete a job in two hours
Alice and Charlie can complete the same
job in three hours
Bob and Charlie can complete the same
job in four hours how long will the job
take if Alice Bob and Charlie worked
together assume each person works at a
constant rate while they're working
alone or working with others this
problem has been asked to students in
u.s. colleges to the professor's
surprise many of the students set up the
wrong equations and could not solve this
problem
can you figure it out give this problem
a try and when you're ready keep
watching the video for the solution
before I get to the solution let me go
over a common mistake in how students
get to the wrong answer they read the
first sentence that Alice and Bob can
complete a job in two hours and
translate the names and the numbers into
an equation
they say this must mean that a plus B
equals two they look at the second
sentence that Alice and Charlie can
complete the job in three hours and they
similarly convert it to a plus C equals
three the third condition that Bob and
Charlie can complete the job in four
hours gets converted to the equation B
plus C equals four the question of how
long it will take for all three of them
working together gets translated into
the question of what is a plus B plus C
so to solve this system of equations
they want to solve for a plus B plus C
so they can add up all the equations
together we end up getting two terms of
a two terms of B and two terms of C two
equal to plus three plus four if we
group the factors we get 2a plus 2b plus
two C equals nine we then divide by two
and that gets us to a plus B plus C
equals dine halves which equals 4/5 so
evidently this will be the answer that
many students get they would say that it
takes 4.5 hours for all three of them
when working together but let's think
about does this answer make any sense
we know that Alice and Bob take two
hours
Alice and Charlie take three hours and
Bob and Charlie take four hours but
somehow when all three are working
together they take four and a half hours
this makes no sense when three people
work together it should take less time
than when only two people work together
but 4.5 hours is more time so this
answer must be wrong not only were the
equations set up incorrectly but any
student who submits this answer is not
thinking about whether the answer makes
any logical sense so how do we solve
this problem we need to set up the
equations in the correct method we know
that Alice and Bob can complete a job in
two hours so how do we translate this
into an equation well if they complete
the job in two hours
that means the percentage of the job
that Alice does in two hours plus the
percentage of the job that Bob does in
two hours equals 100% or that equals one
now since they work at a constant rate
we can say the amount of the job that
Alice does in two hours is two times the
amount of the job that she does in one
hour and the same thing goes for Bob so
we now have a natural choice for our
variables we can say the percentage of
the job that Alice does in one hour will
be the variable a and the percentage of
the job that Bob does in one hour will
be the variable B this leads to the
equation that 2a plus 2b equals one and
that's how we can translate this we can
group this out to be two times the
quantity a plus B equals
so we can now translate the second
sentence we have Alice and Charlie
completing the job in three hours this
will translate into three times the
quantity a plus C equals 1 or C is the
percentage of the job that Charlie
completes in 1 hour we also have that
Bob and Charlie can complete the job in
4 hours so that would mean 4 times a
quantity B plus C equals 1 now we want
to figure out what would happen if they
all three work together so we are
needing to solve for the time times the
quantity a plus B plus C equals 1 we
need to solve for this variable T so how
do we do that well we can similarly add
up all the equations but we have
different quantities of each of these
variables so in order to get the same
number of each variable we're going to
do a little trick we're going to
multiply each equation so that there's a
leading coefficient of 12 which is the
lowest common multiple of two three and
four so the first equation will multiply
by six this will get 12 times the
quantity a plus B to be equal to 6 the
second equation will multiply by 4 and
the third equation will multiply by 3 we
can now add up all of these equations
we'll end up with 12 a 2 times 12 B 2
times and 12 C 2 times and this will be
equal to 6 plus 4 plus 3 we can factor
out the 24 of each of these variables
and that will be equal to 6 plus 4 plus
3 which equals 13 we now divide by 13
and we end up with 24 divided by 13
times the quantity a plus B plus C
equals 1 and that is what we wanted to
figure out so we go back to our setup
and we can see that we get to the answer
of 24 over 13 so the job will take
20 for over 13 hours or about one hour
and 51 minutes and this is a sensible
answer because it takes less time than
any pair working together did you figure
this out thanks for watching this video
please subscribe to my channel I make
videos on math you can catch around my
blog mind your decisions that you can
follow on Facebook Google+ and patreon
you can catch me on social media at
pressure Walker and if you like this
video please check out my books there
are links in the video description